Welcome to the github repository for the Financial Familiars Educational Unity Game created as a University of Florida Senior Project. Below is a brief introduction of the problem this project tries to address as well as our proposed solution.

Low levels of financial literacy among young adults have been found around the globe through many studies (Zaimovic et. al., 2023). This is problematic because all aspects of adult life require financial literacy whether it be to save up for a house or compare between different products. Furthermore, financial literacy is needed for a healthy democracy as it allows citizens to be able to compare fiscal and monetary policy of different candidates. Being unable to understand basic financial topics diminishes opportunities for individuals to generate wealth and escape poverty which leads to an increased level of crime in a society (Pare & Felson, 2014). The reported low levels of financial literacy for young adults are especially concerning as important decisions made in early adult life (like taking out loans for college) can have an enormous impact on the rest of their life.

Our proposed software project aims to educate adolescents transitioning into young adulthood by exploring basic financial concepts in a fun and enjoyable environment. As talked about more in the following financial literacy section, interactive media has been proven to be an effective way to reach adolescents and young adults (Varcoe, et al., 2005, ASU Research Article, 2008). In particular, our group hopes that this project will be able to reach adolescents and young adults who do not respond well to traditional teaching methods like classroom learning. The software project that our group decided upon was creating a game in the real time game engine unity to teach financial skills in an enjoyable way. Our hope is that by making a fun and interactive game, more time is spent on the software learning valuable financial skills.
